	SOFTWARE REQUIREMENT SPECIFICATION FOR Orphanage-Management-System
Objective:
Orphanage management system is a platform that provides help to needy children, we focus on the children those who lost their parents, not able to get their rights, avail opportunities and build a better future for them.

Scope:
Orphanage management system will store all details of orphans including their name, date of birth and all information related to their medical reports. Donor can donate books, other stationary items and other items like clothing, blankets, shoes etc. They can donate any amounts of cash in online or offline.

Functional requirements:
	Any anonymous User will be able to view information available on the site. Any User will be able to view documentation. 
	Registered users will be able donate to the organization. Organization admin will be to track and maintain all the affairs. Administrator will be able to see Information about orphan adoption and user donation.
	Registered user will be able to donate to organization and do adoption of orphan. Registered user can get their donation history and details of orphans in the organization.
	 User will be provided options for donation such as through internet banking or UPI or Online payment option or physical payment. User will asked to submit their payment related information. User will be redirected to payment gateway for secure payment transaction. On successful payment processing using payment gateway system will notify user about donation status.
    	User will able to submit feedback about our portal that they experienced. User will be to manage his profile maintained by system. User will be able change his credentials if required. User will get complete information about his donations, adoption details and volunteer work through a dashboard. User will be able to update his payment related information. Users will be able get their donation related information using user Dashboard.
 	System will present dashboard for Users, client Organization, requirements for orphans.	
	Volunteers team will be informed well in advanced about requirements needed in the organization. Requirements listing will be provided based their category.  
	  Admin will maintain login user information, donation and orphan details such as their personal id, name, date of birth, medical reports. Admin will be able track their activities being done through online portal. Administrator Team will be able to approve or reject request raised by client orphanage for add and remove the user, Add and delete the Notification, view progress and medical status of the orphans or old people, update their orphanage list. Administrator will be able to update portal details which have been already added to catalog.
Non-Functional Requirement:
1.	Security: The system should be designed to protect sensitive data, such as personal information and medical records, from unauthorized access or hacking.
Child(orphan’s) data 
Donors data ( name, occupation, yearly income, contact no, address, )
Using SSL in all transactions  which will be performed stakeholder and donor who selected online donations
It would protect confidential information shared by system to stake holder of Shared by stakeholder to system.
System will block operations for inactive stakeholder and would redirect for authentication.
System will internally maintain secure communication channel between Servers (Web Servers, App Servers, database Server) sensitive data will be always encrypted across communication. User proper firewall to protect servers from outside fishing, vulnerable attacks.

2.	Reliability: The system must be reliable and available 24/7, as it deals with critical data of the children in the orphanage.
The system will backup data on regular basis and recover in short time duration to keep system operational Continuous updates are attained, continuous Administration is done to keep system operational.

3.	Usability: The system should be easy to use and navigate for volunteers, and administrators and donors.

4.	Scalability: The system should be scalable and able to handle the growth of the orphanage and the number of children it cares for.

5.	Performance: The system should be fast and responsive, able to handle a high volume of users and data without any lag or delay.

6.	Compatibility: The system should be compatible with different operating systems, web browsers, and mobile devices to ensure accessibility for all users.

7.	Maintainability: The system should be designed with maintainability in mind, allowing for easy upgrades, bug fixes, and modifications as needed.

8.	Portability : System can be deployed to single server, multi-server, to any OS, Cloud (Azure or AWS or GCP) and User Interface ( HTML, CSS, JS) through  users will be able to access 


9.	Availability: The system must have a high level of availability to prevent any data loss and downtime, and ensure the continuity of services. uptime:   24* 7  available 99.99% uptime


10.	Safety and Privacy: The system must adhere to the privacy laws and guidelines that govern personal data, including consent, collection, storage, usage, sharing, and disposal.

11.	Accessibility: The system must be accessible to all users, including those with disabilities, ensuring equal access and opportunities for all. Registered user can be logged in with email if forgot password.

12.	Capabilities: IT operations team will easily monitor and configure System using Administrative tools provided by Servers. Separate environment will be maintained for system for isolation in production, testing, and development.



